### Hi there 👋

I am a current grad student at The George Washington University doing Masters in Computer Science. I did my bachelors from National University of Computer and Emerging Sciences, one of the most prestigious universities for computing education in Pakistan.

My journey started from my obsession with gaming. This obsession induced a sort of curiosity inside me which impelled me to ponder about many questions: “How does this car move with my keystrokes? “How does it display these graphics on my screen?” All the questions were fundamentally similar-they inquired about how a machine with no intelligence of its own just conjures up something so intricate. The quest to find the answers to these questions gradually developed into a passion for computers and its technology and since then there has never been a shred of doubt within me about what I wanted to pursue. 

It was a thrilling revelation to know that the very first project I’d be working on in my undergrad would be a game. “I’d finally get all my answers!” I thought to myself. The project was a 2D racing game using the OpenGL library in C++. It served me with a moment of epiphany - to finally learn how self-written piece of instructions work together to solve logically complex problems. It was unwise of me to think that my curiosities would be satiated by doing a single project; instead it gave me the grim realization of just how oblivious I was to the vastness of this field. Fueled by this newfound sense of “ignorance”, I worked on a plethora of programming projects in my undergrad courses and solidified my skills in different domains of programming, and then finally stumbled on what I would now call my niche- Software Engineering! 

The idea of creating elegant, complex and impactful applications just from pure thought is precisely what lured me into the realm of software engineering. Working on various software development projects in the past made me realize that coding is only a fraction of what a software developer does. It’s more about analyzing a given problem, breaking it down into smaller chunks and coming up with ideas to solve these chunks. This notion was incredibly fascinating to me because I became cognizant of the engineering prowess that a software developer possesses. A software engineer is like an architect and a builder fused into one person-designing the underlying architecture of the software and subsequently building it. I believe it is truly a frightening power to be in a single person’s hand and the idea of putting this into practice in real world projects really thrills me.

I've immersed myself in a diverse array of programming languages and frameworks throughout my undergraduate journey, spanning from C++, JavaScript (MERN stack), Java, Go, Python, R, PHP, Solidity, to low-level Assembly. Not only that, but I've also navigated database technologies like DynamoDB,BigTable,SQL,PHP and containerization with Docker. This experience has forged a robust foundation within me. I firmly believe that with strong foundations, there's no challenge too formidable. My confidence extends to embracing any technology that comes my way, unfazed by its unfamiliarity. I thrive in environments where continuous learning is encouraged, relishing the opportunity to acquire new skills and apply them to real world projects. I am excited to contribute my expertise to innovative endeavors.

These days, I'm working on latest and cutting-edge technologies such as Next.js, Typescript, GraphQL, Redis. I'm also exploring the realm of DevOps, immersing myself in technologies such such as docker, CI/CD, Kubernetes etc. I've just started blogging all my learnings throughout this journey which you can see on my DEV community page linked on my Github profile. 
